Source URL: https://www.bis.org/publications/202004-standards-margin-requirements-non-centrally-cleared-derivatives.pdf
Retrieved: 2026-10-02
Document: BCBS-IOSCO, Margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives (April 2020). sha256 3ba9da23ae55c5dc4ad482e06eb084ae9c9cae7400a83f5778e986dae490ece6
Note: short excerpts for citation only; dashes normalised to hyphens; page numbers are PDF page numbers unless stated.


[PDF pages 11-12, Requirement 1.2] Initial margin requirements for cross-currency swaps do not apply to the fixed physically settled FX transactions associated with the exchange of principal of cross-currency swaps. In practice, the margin requirements for cross-currency swaps may be computed in one of two ways. Initial margin may be computed by reference to the “interest rate” portion of the standardised initial margin schedule that is discussed below and presented in the appendix. Alternatively, if initial margin is being calculated pursuant to an approved initial margin model, the initial margin model need not incorporate the risk associated with the fixed physically settled FX transactions associated with the exchange of principal. All other risks that affect cross-currency swaps, however, must be considered in the calculation of the initial margin amount.8

[PDF page 16, Requirement 3.1] For the purpose of informing the initial margin baseline, the potential future exposure of a non- centrally cleared derivatives should reflect an extreme but plausible estimate of an increase in the value of the instrument that is consistent with a one-tailed 99 per cent confidence interval over a 10-day horizon,13 based on historical data that incorporates a period of significant financial stress. 14 The initial margin amount must be calibrated to a period that includes financial stress to ensure that sufficient margin will be available when it is most needed and to limit the extent to which the margin can be procyclical. The required amount of initial margin may be calculated by reference to either (i) a quantitative portfolio margin model or (ii) a standardised margin schedule. When initial margin is calculated by reference to an initial margin model, the period of financial stress used for calibration should be identified and applied separately for each broad asset class for which portfolio margining is allowed, as set out below. In addition, the identified period must include a period of financial stress and should cover a historical period not to exceed five years. Additionally, the data within the identified period should be equally weighted for calibration purposes.

[PDF page 18, Requirement 3.6] The required initial margin will be computed by referencing the standardised margin rates in Appendix A and by adjusting the gross initial margin amount by an amount that relates to the net-to- gross ratio (NGR) pertaining to all derivatives in the legally enforceable netting set. The use of the net-to- gross ratio is an accepted practice in the context of bank capital regulation and recognises important offsets that would not be recognised by strict application of a standardised margin schedule. 17 The required initial margin amount would be calculated in two steps. First, the margin rate in the provided schedule would be multiplied by the gross notional size of the derivatives contract, and then this calculation would be repeated for each derivatives contract.18 This amount may be referred to as the gross standardised initial margin. Second, the gross initial margin amount is adjusted by the ratio of the net current replacement cost to gross current replacement cost (NGR). This is expressed through the following formula: Net standardised initial margin = 0.4 * Gross initial margin + 0.6 * NGR * Gross initial margin where NGR is defined as the level of net replacement cost over the level of gross replacement cost for transactions subject to legally enforceable netting agreements. The total amount of initial margin required on a portfolio according to the standardised margin schedule would be the net standardised initial margin amount. However, if a regulated entity is already using a schedule-based margin to satisfy requirements under its required capital regime, the appropriate supervisory authority may permit the use of the same schedule for initial margin purposes, provided that it is at least as conservative.

[PDF page 29, printed page 25, Appendix A, Standardised initial margin schedule; % of notional exposure]
Credit 0-2 year duration | 2
Credit 2-5 year duration | 5
Credit 5+ year duration | 10
Commodity | 15
Equity | 15
Foreign exchange | 6
Interest rate 0-2 year duration | 1
Interest rate 2-5 year duration | 2
Interest rate 5+ year duration | 4
Other | 15
