Source URL: https://publications.europa.eu/resource/celex/32016R2251.ENG (Accept: application/xhtml+xml)
Retrieved: 2026-10-02
Document: Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/2251, Articles 14(3)-(6), 15 and 16 as originally published (consolidated amendments not checked). sha256 of retrieved XHTML 6c153382f2c2a9fe8ab792ee1097000b5fc8fddc9202262bf0501c6a8e712d0d
Note: short excerpts for citation only; dashes normalised to hyphens; page numbers are PDF page numbers unless stated.


[Article 14(3)-(6)] 3. The risk management procedures referred to in Article 2(1) shall ensure that the performance of the model is monitored on a continuous basis including by back-testing the model at least every 3 months. For the purposes of the first subparagraph, back testing shall include a comparison between the values produced by the model and the realised market values of the non-centrally cleared OTC derivative contracts in the netting set. 4. The risk management procedures referred to in Article 2(1) shall outline the methodologies used for undertaking back-testing, including statistical tests of performance. 5. The risk management procedures referred to in Article 2(1) shall describe what results of the back-testing would lead to a model change, recalibration or other remediation action. 6. The risk management procedures referred to in Article 2(1) shall ensure that counterparties retain records of the results of the back-testing referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. Article 15 Confidence interval and MPOR 1. The assumed variations in the value of the non-centrally cleared OTC derivative contracts within the netting set for the calculation of initial margins using an initial margin model shall be based on a one-tailed 99 percent confidence interval over a MPOR of at least 10 days. 2. The MPOR for the calculation of initial margins using an initial margin model referred to in paragraph 1 shall include: (a) the period that may elapse from the last margin exchange of variation margin to the default of the counterparty; (b) the estimated period needed to replace each of the non-centrally cleared OTC derivative contracts within the netting set or hedge the risks arising from them, taking into account the level of liquidity of the market where those types of contracts are traded, the total volume of the non-centrally cleared OTC derivative contracts in that market and the number of participants in that market. Article 16 Calibration of the parameters of the model 1. Parameters used in initial margin models shall be calibrated, at least annually, based on historical data from a time period with a minimum duration of 3 years and a maximum duration of 5 years. 2. The data used for calibrating the parameters of initial margin models shall include the most recent continuous period from the date on which the calibration referred to in paragraph 1 is performed and at least 25 % of those data shall be representative of a period of significant financial stress (‘stressed data’). 3. Where stressed data referred to in paragraph 2 does not constitute at least 25 % of the data used in the initial margin model, the least recent data of the historical data referred to in paragraph 1 shall be replaced by data from a period of significant financial stress, until the overall proportion of stressed data is at least 25 % of the overall data used in the initial margin model. 4. The period of significant financial stress used for calibration of the parameters shall be identified and applied separately at least for each of the asset classes referred to in Article 17(2). 5. The parameters shall be calibrated using equally weighted data. 6. The parameters may be calibrated for shorter periods than the MPOR determined in accordance with 
Article 15. Where shorter periods are used, the parameters shall be adjusted to that MPOR by an appropriate methodology. 7. Counterparties shall have written policies setting out the circumstances triggering a more frequent calibration. 8. Counterparties shall establish procedures for adjusting the value of the margins to be exchanged in response to a change in the parameters due to a change in market conditions. Those procedures shall provide for counterparties to be able to exchange the additional initial margin resulting from that change of the parameters over a period that ranges between 1 and 30 business days. 9. Counterparties shall establish procedures regarding the quality of the data used in the model in accordance with paragraph 1, including the selection of appropriate data providers and the cleaning and interpolation of that data. 10. Proxies for the data used in initial margin models shall be used only where both of the following conditions are met: (a) available data is insufficient or is not reflective of the true volatility of an OTC derivative contract or portfolio of OTC derivative contracts within the netting set; (b) the proxies lead to a conservative level of margins.
